---
layout: post
title: A cap & trade system for Gementee Eindhoven
categories: energy-transition business-models
---

---

 Question | Develop cost-effective market mechanisms to guarantee meeting CO2 emissions?
 :--- | :---:
 Role   | Internal consultant, researcher
 Type | Case study
 Deliverables |  Future-proof market mechanisms based on Cap and Trade)

---
## Case description
The municipality of Eindhoven wishes to lead the transformation of
the city into energy neutral by 2045. To realize this vision, the first objective of the municipality to upgrade their own buildings, to make
them more sustainable and energy-efficient.

In order to finance the technical solution proposed by experts, the municipality requires a sound business plan.

The question posed was: **Develop an innovative business model to finance the technical solutions required to achieve the objectives of Gementee Eindhoven.**

## Case analysis

Market-based pollution control mechanisms, such as carbon trading and
cap and trade have been succesfully implemented across the world to make buildings more sustainable (see [Japan](http://www.metro.tokyo.jp/english/topics/2016/161116_01.html)).

Furthermore, emission trading mechanisms have been successfully used in the
past to manage and reduce the presence of harmful substances in various
scenarios such as acid rain and ground level ozone. There is now a growing
consensus of policy makers who argue that these market mechanisms are
well suited to the problem of climate change.

A particular form of emission trading, Cap and trade is a market mechanism used to reduce emission of CO2. The main steps involved in a cap and trade mechanism are :

1. The regulating authority sets a cap on total emissions that can be emitted
by all the market players (sources) for a fixed time period. This time
period is also termed as the compliance period.
2. The regulating authority divides the cap into allowances or permits
which are distributed to the market players using various means.
3. During the compliance period, each market player is expected to monitor
and report their emissions.
4. At the end of the compliance period, each player is expected to submit
an equal amount of permits as their emissions. If a player does not comply,
then harsh penalties are imposed.

## Case solution
I now outline a solution of how the city of Eindhoven could roll out such a scheme. Further communication with the client revealed that the goal of the client is to:

***
**Achieve 40% reduction in total energy consumption in a
period of 1 year.**

***

In our example, we assume Eindhoven to be a city that consists of 3
buildings. The Stadhuis Toren, Van abbe Museum and the Mercado building.
We further assume that each of these building have been thoroughly evaluated
and their current energy consumption is measured. The compliance period is also assumed to be 1 year. Additionally, a panel of experts have also reported
the cost incurred by each building to reduce it’s energy consumption
by one unit. The report submitted by the panel is displayed in the table below.
The municipality now the necessary information about how to bring
down it’s energy consumption to 40% of it’s current value i.e., reduce energy
consumption from 200 to 120 units.

---

 Building | Current energy consumption (units) | Cost (pu) of energy reduction
 :--- | :---: | :---:
 Stadhuis Toren | 70  | 20
 Van abbe Museum |  80 | 25
 Mercado | 50 | 10

---

The next big question facing the municipality is "Do we have a reasonable
framework that can achieve this target as efficiently as possible?". Efficiency here refers to the concept that each building owner must be able to optimally reduce their energy footprint at a minimum cost.

To close the case, I presented 3 solutions based on the cap and trade framework. The solutions in brief are:

1. Cap and trade- without the trade.
2. Cap and trade- with tradable permits.
3. Cap and trade - with citizen’s dividend.

 The 3 solutions have their own unique features. However, they all ensure that the municipality reaches their goal of achieving a 40% reduction in total energy consumption in the city in a period of 1 year.
